In this video, we are going to look at
implementing the display owner record
for our Spring Pet Clinic project.
I've got the task open here. I'm going to
just go and assign it to myself here to
get started. Let's take a quick look
at the Spring implementation. I'm going to
steal shamelessly from that but we're
going to step through exactly what they're
doing. Now one thing I haven't shown in
the class so far here, I'm looking on
line 126 down here. This is the
controller method that's going to handle
the find operation. So you can see it
goes by owners owner ID to bring in that
path variable to display a specific
owner record. In this case, it's
returning a Model and View. We've only
been returning back a String for the
view. Model and View is kind of like a
composite object. You can see there, it's
a specifying it creates a new Model and
View with a path and that's
basically the view name. And then we add
in an object and that's to the Model. So
very similar to what we've been doing
where one technique is where we
inject the Model into the controller so
this is a different technique that the
Spring team is showing here. I'm
going to go ahead and model that and
then the other thing that we are going
to do is here I've brought up the
templates that they have and that
they've got four templates around owners.
We're going to implement those as well
in this lesson. I'm not going to
modify the HTML from the original
Spring project right now.
I'm just going to bring that into the
project and we're going to work with
that. So I'm going to jump over to IntelliJ
now. I've gone ahead and I copied
over the different HTML files. The
one thing that we are going to be
working with is ownerDetails. this
is the owner information and we're going
to retire eventually retire our index
page. But here's our owner details. We
can see the Thymeleaf code that's been
implemented by the Spring guys and this
sets up basically to display a specific
owner. Now what we want to do is go ahead
and implement that. Right now, in our
implementation, we have
find but we need to actually add in the
display. Just to reiterate, this guy
here, I can almost. Let me just go ahead
and copy this guy over and then modify
it. So that does a GetMapping which is
what we want. ModelAndView import him
and also PathVariable.
We've already mapped owner so we can
get rid of that. We're just going to take
in the ownerId. Here we are bringing
in an integer for the owneId and we
are returning back the view owners ownerDetails so you can see here that's one
of the views that I've brought over. In
here, they've refactor things a little
bit. I'm going to change this to be our
ownerService. In here, this should be
Long for our purposes and that should do
it.
Let's take a look at our test. We want to
write a controller test for those so I'm
going to copy this and work with that.
I'm going to copy this here. We're going to
say when ownerService.findById.
We're going to return back an owner like
so. Oh my mistake.
We're setting up Mockito to return
back an Owner object here. I'm just
saying then return and we're using the
Owner builder to return back an Owner
object. In this case, we want to say 123. We're going to expect isOk
and we want the path to be this owners
ownerDetails. I'm just copying that
over to this. Let's take a look at
that OwnerController. It's going to add
in an object. I'm going to add in an object. Take a
look at. I don't remember what the name is
on that. We are going to have to see.
I'm kind of curious as to what that
object. It's adding an object to the ModelAndView but I don't see how it's being
a reference for the name so let's go
ahead and experiment with that. I'm going to...
it's been a while since I use ModelAndView so we may learn a little bit here.
That's attribute. I'd like to get an owner.
Going to make sure that the owner is not null
so let's go ahead and run this test now
and see if it does in fact work out
properly. Getting a Null Pointer Exception
here.
So apparently it's implying that the model
is null so that's interesting so let's
go ahead and run this in debugger. I'm
going to debug this a little bit so let's
come in here and let's set a breakpoint.
Okay, so we did get the model and map
owner. That's what I wanted I'd
wanted is that the owner property. So
that is good. Let's see if we can run
to that breakpoint. Step over that. Look at the
view. Let's take a look at the MVC
object itself. I'm inspecting the object
here. I'm going to go ahead and drill
into this. I'm just stepping through
trying to get a hold of Model.
Now moving a little bit faster here, but
I'm just going through stepping it into
the stack here. It's going through
the matcher stuff. I'm trying to see
exactly what's null there. So we did get
a matcher. Come over here. Nope.
Skipped over it.
Take a closer look here. For some
reason, I'm getting a null pointer out of
this and I'm not expecting that because
I did see the owner attribute get added.
So I'm going to pause this and look at it a
little bit closer here. Okay, I refactored
the test there so that is null was
popping. I was using that matcher
improperly and actually improved the
test a little bit here. You can see the
refactoring that I did.
We went from isNull so now I added
hasProperty. I'm making sure that this
model comes back. It has an attribute
called owner and that owner has an ID of
a Long of 1. So I'm making sure that
that does match that. So now, when I run
this, this test does pass. So I
can see that test pass. And now let's go
ahead and run this. We'll make sure that
it's running. I'm going to collapse this
package. Remember our DataLoader, we
are adding in owners. Our service is
going to save it. So let's go ahead and
start this up. Again, we are initialized
in the database and we failed to start.
Oh I got something running on 8080.
Let's pause this. I'm going to start that
back up. Yeah that was my mistake. I
have several IntelliJ windows open and I
had another project cooking. I had
something running inside of IntelliJ, a
different Spring Boot project so I had a
pork conflict there. Two things can't run
on 8080. It looks like we are up and
running. Let's toggle over to Chrome.
Bring up tab. So now if I come here, so
remember, come back to this controller. So
if I do owners and I should have, a let's
do owners slash one
We had an error status 500 so let's take
a look and investigate that. You can
see we got the stack trace here in the
log. Property field of type, that is
something that we are going to implement.
so  I'm going to show you what's
happening here. We are bringing up
this ownerDetails. Where is he at
does it give us a line number. That
this is actually a Thymeleaf there. I'm
looking at the stack trace to see if we
get a line. Pet type is line 52. So they
come down here showing you the debug.
We are not setting pet types here right
now. This is a model attribute that we
need to add in. So pet type. Just double
check that. Yep, so yeah. It's looking
for an attribute of pet type right now.
We are looking for a model attribute
of pet and I am going to implement that
in the next video. So right now, our
application is broken. I'm going to check
it in like this and we will fix this in
the next video because I want to get
into model attributes, a completely
different subject and we are getting a
little long on time in this video. So I'm
going to stop the video here and we will
come back in the next video. I'll
show you how to fix this problem with
the template. Because right now, the issue
is it cannot find an object called pet
because the supreme expression is
looking for an object called pet.
That's not on the model and that's why I
was breaking. In the next video I'm going to
show you exactly how we fix that.